-: Welcome back.
In this lecture we are going to do the deployment demo.
So we'll go to zero four deployments with kubectl.
So let me go inside
and
inside that 0 4 0 1 will be creating our deployment
scaling our deployment, and exposing it as a service.
So all those things, we are going to do it now, right?
So step zero one, introduction to deployments.
We have just now completed.
So we are going to move on to creating a deployment, right?
So to create a deployment we are going to use kubectl.
Create deployment and the deployment name,
whatever we are going to put and our container image.
So we are going to use the kube Nginx image.
And if you see here,
this is the docker image location
and we have 1.0024.00
So if we have four versions of our Nginx application
which we are going to leverage
and then test end to end all the deployment feature support,
updating the deployment, rolling back the deployment
or pausing and then resuming the deployment.
In addition to that,
rolling back the deployment to specific version
or rolling back the deployment to older version
or previous version.
All these things we are going to test it.
So that's the reason we have four versions
of our engines application present here.
So let's go back.
So let's create the deployment now.
So we are going to copy this
and go here
and paste it.
So our deployment got created.
So we'll say kubectl get deployment.
Right?
So our first deployment got deployed even
we can use the alias name deploy.
So these aliases will help us in when we are in hurry.
We really don't need to completely provide the deployments
or just give deploy
and then it provides the output.
In the same way for services it is SV
and then for parts people.
So it's always good to learn this earlier access.
For ReplicaSet, it is going to be RS.
So like that.
So now,
kubectl
describe
deployment
and the deployment name.
So my first
deployment,
right?
So this is the deployment scaled up ReplicaSet by
my first deployment,
whatever the ReplicaSet name it is providing.
So if you say kubectl, get RS.
So we have seen that creating a deployment
will create the ReplicaSet.
So it has created one.
So we can see it.
And it has one pod under it.
So let me clear this and say
kubectl
get pod.
So we have one pod created as part of this deployment.
So now the next thing is to scale our deployment.
So using kubectl scale,
we'll be able to scale our deployment.
So let's do that now.
Kubectl scale
and the number of replicas, I want it from
1 to
20,
right?
And my deployment name,
My first
deployment.
So you can use deployment space.
My first deployment
or even we can use this, anything is fine.
So now it is going to scale.
So let's see, kubectl
get
deploy
and also
kubectl
get.
So we have 20 and then already 16 is available.
Now they are coming up.
So one more time if we check.
So mostly 20 should be available.
So you can even say kubectl get pod
and you see all 20 out of 20 are running.
So one more thing here is kubectl
get
ReplicaSet.
And if you see
in
ReplicaSet.
So we got the output data.
20 out of 20 are happening, running, all the pods.
So now the next thing is
like we can scale down our deployment using replicas to 10.
So let's go back here and our instead of 20
let's bring down our things
to
and automatically,
our
pods will get terminated now,
right?
So out of 20, 10 pods will get terminated and then
we will end up with only
10 pods.
That's good.
So now the next thing is expose deployment as a service.
Again, we are going to use the same node pod
service concept.
What we have used it for our pod earlier.
The same we are going to use it.
So instead of deploy- for pod,
we are going to use it as deployment.
Kubectl expose deployment and deployment name.
And the type is going to be node pod
and my service pod is going to be 80 and the target pod
my container pod is going to be 80 and the name
of the services my first deployment service.
So let's go ahead and then create this now, right?
So let the service get created and now kubectl,
get
SVC.
And my services got created and this pod,
node pod is 3 2 1 6 9.
So I'll say kubectl,
get nodes,
hyphen o
and then wide.
So now I got the public IP.
So I can use any one of them out of two and then 32169.
So let's go ahead and then access it
now,
right?
So 3, 2, 1, 6, 9.
So now our application V1 version is up and running
and then we are able to access it means like a deployment
exposed as service for us,
right?
So let me go back here.
And that completes the
simple creation of a deployment
and then testing of scaling the deployment
and also exposing the deployment as a service.
So everything we have done using
imperative commands using kubectl, right?
So in our next lecture,
we'll focus on updating the deployment.
So until then, bye bye.
Thank you.